EDU-681 The "Update" feature (#2034)
temporalio/documentation: docs-src/concepts/what-is-an-update.md

---
id: what-is-an-update
title: What is an Update?
sidebar_label: Update
description: An Update is a request to and a response from Workflow Execution.
tags:
  - term
  - updates
  - explanation
---

An Update is a request to and a response from a Temporal Client to a [Workflow Execution](/concepts/what-is-a-workflow-execution).

- [How to develop, send, and handle Updates in Go](/go/updates)

The Workflow must have a function to handle the Update.
Unlike a [Signal](/concepts/what-is-a-signal) handler, the Update handler function can mutate the state of the Workflow while also returning a value to the caller.
The Update handler listens for Updates by the Update's name.

When there is the potential for multiple Updates to cause a duplication problem, Temporal recommends adding idempotency logic to your Update handler that checks for duplicates.

An Update has four phases.

> 1. **Admission.** The Temporal Cluster first validates Update submissions against the configured resource usage limits.

Reviewer: Should we add a comment on when a workflow can/can't continue as new when there are inflight updates?

Author: @Quinn-With-Two-Ns Any info you have on that would be great to add!
@mmcshane for deets too?

Reviewer: I believe if the update is `Admitted` and until it is `Accepted` the server will stop the workflow from continuing as new

---
id: what-is-an-update
title: What is an Update?
sidebar_label: Update
description: An Update is a request to and a response from Workflow Execution.
tags:
  - term
  - updates
  - explanation
---

An Update is a request to and a response from a Temporal Client to a [Workflow Execution](/concepts/what-is-a-workflow-execution).

- [How to develop, send, and handle Updates in Go](/go/updates)

The Workflow must have a function to handle the Update.
Unlike a [Signal](/concepts/what-is-a-signal) handler, the Update handler function can mutate the state of the Workflow while also returning a value to the caller.
The Update handler listens for Updates by the Update's name.

When there is the potential for multiple Updates to cause a duplication problem, Temporal recommends adding idempotency logic to your Update handler that checks for duplicates.

> An Update has four phases.

Reviewer 2: I think having "phases" separate from "states" is a bit confusing, but I guess not that bad. May want to list states somewhere too.

Reviewer 3: The thinking here was that states are the endpoints of phases of execution. i.e. the ACCEPTED state is the completion state of the validation phase. That's why the completion states are called out below.

   At this stage, the Platform hasn't yet persisted the Update to the Workflow Execution's Event History or sent it to a Worker.
1. **Validation.** An optional request-validation phase further validates Update requests.
   This Query handler performs the optional request validation.
   This validation code, similar to a Query handler, can observe but not modify the Workflow state.
   This means that the validation of an Update request may depend on the Workflow state at runtime.
   If an Update request doesn't pass validation at this stage, the system rejects the request and doesn't record anything in the Workflow Event History to indicate that the Update ever happened.
   The Update processing doesn't proceed to subsequent phases.
   When the Update completes the validation stage, the Platform changes its state to **Accepted**.
   A [WorkflowExecutionUpdateAcceptedEvent](/references/events#workflowexecutionupdateacceptedevent) Event in the Workflow Execution [Event History](#event-history) denotes the acceptance of an Update.
1. **Execution.** Accepted Update requests move to the execution phase.
   In this phase, the Worker delivers the request to the Update handler.

>    The Platform subjects Update handlers to Replays and handlers thus must be [deterministic](/concepts/what-is-a-workflow-definition#deterministic-constraints).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Like every bit of code in a Workflow, Update handlers must be [deterministic](/concepts/what-is-a-workflow-definition#deterministic-constraints).
```

>    Moreover, they should execute quickly and not explicitly block; that is, if an Update handler needs to block, it should use an Activity and wait for that Activity's result, just like any other piece of Workflow code.

Reviewer 3: What doe we usually say when we want to say "workflow code cannot block except for in these sanctioned ways: { wait on future, wait on channel, wofklow.Sleep ...  etc}" ? That's what is needed here.

---
id: what-is-an-update
title: What is an Update?
sidebar_label: Update
description: A Update is a request to a workflow that returns a response.
tags:
  - term
  - updates
  - explanation
---

> An Update is a request and response from a Temporal Client to a [Workflow Execution](/concepts/what-is-a-workflow-execution).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
An Update is a request to and response from a Temporal Client to a [Workflow Execution](/concepts/what-is-a-workflow-execution).
```
Should the `description` attribute mirror this sentence?

- [How to develop, send, and handle Updates in Go](/go/updates)

> An Update is the full request and response to and from a running Workflow Execution.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
An Update is the full request to and response from a running Workflow Execution.
```
This sentence seems redundant.

The Workflow must have a function to handle the Update.
Unlike a [Signal](/concepts/what-is-a-signal) handler, the Update handler function can mutate the state of the Workflow while also returning a value to the caller.
The Update handler listens for Updates by the Update's name.

When there is the potential for multiple Updates to cause a duplication problem, Temporal recommends adding idempotency logic to your Update handler that checks for duplicates.

An Update has four phases.

> 1. **_Admission_** - The Temporal Cluster first validates Update submissions against configured resource utilization limits.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. **Admission.** The Temporal Cluster first validates Update submissions against configured resource utilization limits.
```
Changed list-item header style throughout per https://developers.google.com/style/lists#description-lists-that-use-run-in-headings.

>    For example, there are limits against concurrent requests and requests per second limits.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   For example, limits apply to concurrent requests and requests per second.
```

   See the [Temporal Platform limits sheet](/kb/temporal-platform-limits-sheet) for more details.

>    After this, the Platform changes the status of the Update to **_Admitted_**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   When this phase is complete, the Platform changes the status of the Update to **Admitted**.
```

   At this stage, the Platform hasn't yet persisted the Update to the Workflow Execution's Event History or sent it to a Worker.
1. **_Validation_** - An optional request validation phase further validates Update requests.
   This Query handler performs the optional request validation.

>    This validation code, similar to a Query handler, can observe but not modify the workflow state.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   This validation code, similar to a Query handler, can observe but not modify the Workflow state.
```

   This means that the validation of an Update request may depend on the Workflow state at runtime.
   If an Update request doesn't pass validation at this stage, the system rejects the request and doesn't record anything in the Workflow Event History to indicate that the Update ever happened.
   The Update processing doesn't proceed to subsequent phases.

>    Once the Update passes the validation stage, the Platform changes its state to **_Accepted_**.
>    A `WorkflowExecutionUpdateAcceptedEvent` in the Workflow Execution [Event History](#event-history) denotes the acceptance of an Update.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   When the Update completed the validation stage, the Platform changes its state to **Accepted**.
   A `WorkflowExecutionUpdateAcceptedEvent` Event in the Workflow Execution [Event History](#event-history) denotes the acceptance of an Update.
```
Per https://developers.google.com/style/code-in-text#grammatical-treatment-of-code-elements.

> 1. **_Execution_** - Accepted Update requests move to the execution phase.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. **Execution.** Accepted Update requests move to the execution phase.
```

   In this phase, the Worker delivers the request to the Update handler.
   The Platform subjects Update handlers to Replays and handlers thus must be [deterministic](/concepts/what-is-workflow-definition#deterministic-constraints).

>    Moreover, they should execute quickly and not explicitly block; That is - if an Update handler needs to block it should use an Activity and wait for that Activity's result, just like any other piece of Workflow code.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   Moreover, they should execute quickly and not explicitly block; that is, if an Update handler needs to block, it should use an Activity and wait for that Activity's result, just like any other piece of Workflow code.
```

> 1. **_Completion_** - The Update handler can return a result or a language-appropriate error/exception to indicate its completion.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. **Completion.** The Update handler can return a result or a language-appropriate error/exception to indicate its completion.
```

   The Platform sends the Update outcome back to the original invoking entity as an Update response.

>    A `WorkflowExecutionUpdateCompletedEvent` in the Workflow Execution [Event History](#event-history) denotes the completion of an update.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   A `WorkflowExecutionUpdateCompletedEvent` event in the Workflow Execution Event History denotes the completion of an update.
```
